Add HTTP SD recommendations (#1975)
prometheus/docs: content/docs/instrumenting/http_sd.md

## Comparison between File-Based SD and HTTP SD

Here is a table comparing our two generic Service Discovery implementations.

| Item | File SD | HTTP SD |
| ---- | ------- | ------- |
| Event Based | Yes, via inotify | No |
| Update frequency | Instant, thanks to inotify | Following refresh_interval |
| Format | Yaml or JSON | JSON |
| Transport | Local file | HTTP/HTTPS |
| Security | File-Based security | TLS, Basic auth, Authorization header, OAuth2 |

## Requirements of HTTP SD endpoints

The HTTP SD endpoints should have been written specifically for Prometheus.
The response is consumed as is, unmodified. On each refresh interval (default: 1
minute), Prometheus will do a GET request to the HTTP SD endpoint. The GET
request contains a `X-Prometheus-Refresh-Interval-Seconds` HTTP header with the
refresh interval.

The SD endpoint must answer with an HTTP 200 response, with the HTTP Header
`Content-Type: application/json`. The answer must be UTF-8 formatted.
In the case when no targets are returned, an HTTP 200 must also be emitted, with
an empty list `[]`.

It is expected that the whole list of targets is returned on every scrape. There

> is no client-side caching mechanism. A prometheus instance does not send its

Reviewer: Does this imply that a failure (4xx, 5xx, TCP RST) will empty any existing discovery data? If any failure results in no targets, we should probably call this out.

Author: It should keep the previous targets set. I will update.

Reviewer: Rather than "no client-side cache", I would say "It does not support incremental updates".

Reviewer: Also "It does not store data between restarts"

---
title: HTTP SD
sort_rank: 7
---

# Writing HTTP Service Discovery

Prometheus provides a generic [HTTP Service Discovery](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#http_sd_config),

> that enables to discover targets over an HTTP endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that enables it to discover targets over an HTTP endpoint.
```

The HTTP Service Discovery is complimentary to the supported service

> discoveries, and is an alternative to the [File-based Service Discovery](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/file-sd/#use-file-based-service-discovery-to-discover-scrape-targets).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
discovery mechanisms, and is an alternative to [File-based Service Discovery](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/file-sd/#use-file-based-service-discovery-to-discover-scrape-targets).
```

## Comparison between File-Based SD and HTTP SD

Here is a table comparing our two generic Service Discovery implementations.

| Item | File SD | HTTP SD |
| ---- | ------- | ------- |
| Event Based | Yes, via inotify | No |
| Update frequency | Instant, thanks to inotify | Following refresh_interval |
| Format | Yaml or JSON | JSON |
| Transport | Local file | HTTP/HTTPS |
| Security | File-Based security | TLS, Basic auth, Authorization header, OAuth2 |

## Requirements of HTTP SD endpoints

> The HTTP SD endpoints should have been written specifically for Prometheus.

Reviewer 2: That's unclear.

Author: What I try to say really is that we expect this to work only for endpoints crafted for this purpose. We don't aim to support e.g. file servers that would not provide appropriate content types etc...

Author: How can we better phrase it?

The response is consumed as is, unmodified. On each refresh interval (default: 1
minute), Prometheus will do a GET request to the HTTP SD endpoint. The GET
request contains a `X-Prometheus-Refresh-Interval-Seconds` HTTP header with the
refresh interval.

The SD endpoint must answer with an HTTP 200 response, with the HTTP Header
`Content-Type: application/json`. The answer must be UTF-8 formatted.

> In the case when no targets are returned, an HTTP 200 must also be emitted, with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no targets should be transmitted, HTTP 200 must also be emitted, with
```

an empty list `[]`.

> If an error occurs while fetching the targets list, the current targets list is
> kept. The targets list is not saved across restart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prometheus caches target lists. If an error occurs while fetching an updated targets list, Prometheus keeps using the current targets list. The targets list is not saved across restart.
```

The whole list of targets must be returned on every scrape. There is no support

> for incremental update. A prometheus instance does not send its hostname and it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for incremental updates. A Prometheus instance does not send its hostname and it
```

is not possible for a SD endpoint to know if the SD requests is the first one
after a restart or not.

The URL to the HTTP SD is not considered secret. The authentication, and any API
keys should be passed with the appropriate authentication mechanisms. Prometheus

> supports TLS authentication, basic authentication, oauth2, and authorization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
supports TLS authentication, basic authentication, OAuth2, and authorization
```

---
title: HTTP SD
sort_rank: 7
---

# Writing HTTP Service Discovery

Prometheus provides a generic [HTTP Service Discovery](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#http_sd_config),
that enables it to discover targets over an HTTP endpoint.

The HTTP Service Discovery is complimentary to the supported service
discovery mechanisms, and is an alternative to [File-based Service Discovery](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/file-sd/#use-file-based-service-discovery-to-discover-scrape-targets).

## Comparison between File-Based SD and HTTP SD

Here is a table comparing our two generic Service Discovery implementations.

| Item | File SD | HTTP SD |
| ---- | ------- | ------- |
| Event Based | Yes, via inotify | No |
| Update frequency | Instant, thanks to inotify | Following refresh_interval |
| Format | Yaml or JSON | JSON |
| Transport | Local file | HTTP/HTTPS |
| Security | File-Based security | TLS, Basic auth, Authorization header, OAuth2 |

> ## Requirements of HTTP SD endpoints

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should call this v1 or 1.0.0 and use RFC 2119 language

Author: We can version later. At this point, this is not even released. I would refrain from versioning or being too strict here. It is almost rfc2119, we could just turn lowercases into uppercases later on.

Author: I propose we do RFC2119 and versioning in the compliance repository.

If you implement an HTTP SD endpoint, here is a few requirements you should be
aware of.

The response is consumed as is, unmodified. On each refresh interval (default: 1

> minute), Prometheus will do a GET request to the HTTP SD endpoint. The GET

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
minute), Prometheus will perform a GET request to the HTTP SD endpoint. The GET
```

> request contains a `X-Prometheus-Refresh-Interval-Seconds` HTTP header with the

Reviewer 2: Why? What do you suggest implementers do with it?

Author: X-Prometheus-Refresh-Interval-Seconds is 1, they might cache on their side. I don't want to call this explicitly, I just want to guarantee that we will keep this field in the future.

refresh interval.

The SD endpoint must answer with an HTTP 200 response, with the HTTP Header
`Content-Type: application/json`. The answer must be UTF-8 formatted.
If no targets should be transmitted, HTTP 200 must also be emitted, with

> an empty list `[]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an empty list `[]`. The target list is unordered.
```

Prometheus caches target lists. If an error occurs while fetching an updated
targets list, Prometheus keeps using the current targets list. The targets list
is not saved across restart.

The whole list of targets must be returned on every scrape. There is no support
for incremental updates. A Prometheus instance does not send its hostname and it
is not possible for a SD endpoint to know if the SD requests is the first one
after a restart or not.

> 

Reviewer 3: random (probably irrelevant) question, need there be any consideration for sorting the results of the HTTP endpoint? would it cause unnecessary updates to the list of targets (potentially resetting scrape timers or something unintended) if the results "changed" by being in a different order?

The SD endpoint must answer with an HTTP 200 response, with the HTTP Header
`Content-Type: application/json`. The answer must be UTF-8 formatted.
If no targets should be transmitted, HTTP 200 must also be emitted, with

> an empty list `[]`. The list of unordered.

Reviewer 2: I would call it target list, but nm.

`s/of/is/` and good to merge.

Author: What about Lists are unordered ?

Because this is a list of  maps that contain a target list.

Reviewer 2: We're on the long tail of the discussion; "Target lists are unordered" would be even more generic; I am fine with any.
